# LAMAS_2020Project

We want to create a model of the Battleships puzzle game. The game is played between 2 players and involves two boards, that have a, usually 10x10, grid on them and a given number of place-able objects (ships) of varying lengths (from 2x1 grid slots to 6x1 grid slots). The ships can be placed anywhere on your grid, with vertical or horizontal orientation, as long as they do not intersect any other ships or go out of the grid. Each player is only aware of the locations of their own ships. The goal of the game is to hit and sink all of the opponent's ships while avoiding having your own sunk. Before the game starts, the players secretly place their ships into positions chosen by them, without the other player knowing the locations. The players then take turns attacking a single slot on the enemy grid. If the attack hits a ship, they will know that a ship was hit. If a player misses, they will know that they missed. A ship is sunk if all of its slots were hit. If you hit a ship, you will not be aware of which ship it is or on what other slots it is so you have to keep guessing or deducing until you sink it, at which point you will be notified which ship it was and that it was sunk. Needless to say, there are tactics that help in winning the game. If possible, on top of modelling the game in a logic-base system, we would like to attempt modelling optimal tactics as well.\\
An example of what the original board game looks and how it was played like can be seen in figure \ref{fig:battleships}.


In order to properly model the previously described game we will be making use of common knowledge (when it comes to the status of ships, for example if and where it got hit or if it sank), public announcements (that a ship was hit and/or sunk) and typical epistemic logic in regards to the knowledge about each individual grid block in the 10x10 grid. By default, you know your own grid, but not the opponent's, and you also know both of the ship count and types of each player. The game would end when the enemy's grid becomes common knowledge. Until that happens, however, the status of each of the grid blocks would be something akin to: "any of the enemy ships that have not yet been sunk could be on this block". By making inquiries (attacks), each player can find out one of two possible truths about the block: "there is/was a ship on this block" ($K s_{i}$, where i would be the ship) or "there is nothing on this block" ($K\neg s$). Hitting a target will also change the truth status from unknown to "in this adjacent slot, a ship may be located"($M s_{i}$). If a second hit occurs in an adjacent block, the knowledge is update further with either the ship being sunk or the player becoming aware of the orientation of the ship. Becoming aware of the orientation of the ship means that the knowledge is updated once more in the following way: the adjacent blocks of the grids that are not opposite to the newly hit blocks become unknown once more; the opposing ones and their neighbour on the same line as the current and previous hit may contain more ship parts. That process is repeated until the ship is sunk, in which case the adjacent blocks return to the status of being unknown. Once all ships
are sunk, you will automatically know that the rest of the grid blocks are empty, thus making the opponent's map become common knowledge.
