---
layout: default
title: "Battleship <br/> An Epistemic Logic Representation"
description: "An approach to modelling a variant of the game"
theme: jekyll-theme-cayman
---
# Modelling a variant
Assuming we want to model a variant of the game,. First we need to decide what our condition will be. For the sake of this example, our condition will be that when you make an announcement in an attempt to find out about the board of your opponent, you must also announce the status of the same position on your own board. That means that the announcement action that each agent takes changes from "&not;K<sub>i</sub> p<sub>Ship</sub>(x,y,b)" to "&not;K<sub>i</sub> p<sub>Ship</sub>(x,y,b) &and; K<sub>i</sub> p<sub>Ship</sub>(x,y,a)" in case there is a ship or "&not;K<sub>i</sub> p<sub>Ship</sub>(x,y,b) &and; K<sub>i</sub> &not; p<sub>Ship</sub>(x,y,a)" in case there is, where a stands for the board of the current agent i, b stands for the board of the opponent and x and y are coordinates. The announcements would now roughly translate to "I do not know if a ship is at (x,y,b) and I know that there is/isn't a ship at (x,y,a)". This action must be, obviously, taken by both agents on their respective turns as it is the only way of communicating in this variant of the game.

This new condition will lead to several new, interesting behaviours. For example, since the agents want to avoid the position of their own ships becoming common knowledge, the agents will want to first discover the positions that they themselves do not have a ship on, but the opponent may. However, what would happen if you have discovered the ship of your opponent, but it also overlaps with yours, while your opponent has not yet discovered that very ship themselves? Depending on how this is modelled, the agents could decide to sacrifice the ship if it means sinking an opponents, or they may chose to stop the attack on that particular ship. However, if they suddenly stop the attack, that may arouse the suspicion of the opponent who might attack that slot themselves. That could be a net benefit since you would need to do that yourself and this might earn you an extra round over the opponent. As you can see, there are a lot more aspects that need to be taken into consideration in this scenario. Said aspects also allow for more nuanced approaches to agent behaviours and for more peculiar situations. It might be interesting to even give the agents an archetype of behaviour, for example being overly aggressive and sacrificing your own ships if it means that you sink the opponent's or being overly defensive and trying not to sink your own ships at almost any cost. That being said, this scenario could also lead to an interesting outcome in that one agent can sink both of the final ships on their turn and the other agent, despite having a turn afterwards, can't do anything anymore, but attack an empty slot. If such odd scenarios were to occur, it might be interesting to include additional rules in the variant if necessary.

All in all, this is just one of many potential variants that could be taken into consideration and modelling such variants is going to be challenging. It is important to keep in mind that no matter what you want to model, it is important to have a grasp on what it would look like formally and what possible effects it can have on the overall behaviour of the model.

[Back](./)